Basic idea:
I'll build a data structure that's basically a hashtable.
The key will be a hash of some sort.
The value will be a LineInfo.
A LineInfo will have:
  changeset (when the line was last changed)
  prev (hash of LineInfo for the previous time the line was changed)

However, I also want to be able to reconstitute the entire file at the time
of the last change. Getting the contents of a file at a given revision
is a fast operation in Git. But I also need to get the blame for that
entire file. That means possibly following lots of links. Also, what if
a bunch of lines were added in unrelated places?

The correct way to get blame is to walk backwards in the log for the
given file, I think. A larger file might have ~2000 commits to it.
Getting the blame is easier with --incremental. It shows what's actually going on.

What if I just compute the blame for every revision of the file
simultaneously? Then users could just move a slider to decide which
rev they're interested in, and the results would be immediate.
I'd have to store more data, potentially, but it doesn't seem like
that much in total. And maybe I could compress it somehow.
For each line of each revision, I would store the rev. Git already
stores the data itself, so there would be no need for that.
Storing a revision is 20 bytes. So, for a 15000-line file with
2000 commits, that would be 572MB. That's too big I guess.
I wonder how big it would be if I gzipped it?

Let's say I already have this information for one version of a file.
Now I want to store it for a later version. I can look at the diff
that transforms to the new version. The new version is just the old
revlist, except any + lines in the diff are now set to the diff rev.
So I could store it as a range of lines from the old revlist, then some
new lines, then another range of lines from the old revlist, etc.

Another idea: what if I just stored the revlist for every 50 revs
or so. Then I could apply diffs from there the way that git blame
already does. The difference is that I'd never be more than 50 revs
from where I want to be. That would reduce my storage overhead by
a factor of 50. Now I'd be storing 11MB for nsDocShell, even without
any other compression.

Perhaps I should also store the complete list of revs to the file.
That would also speed things up considerably I think, and it shouldn't be
too big.

How do I deal with merge commits?
I need to linearize the commits in some way. That's fine, and I should
try to do it in the same order as git blame. But I also need to handle
the actual ordering correctly. Let's say I get to a rev. I need to use
the blame info for its predecessor rather than just whatever rev I
did most recently. What if it has multiple predecessors?

  b
 / \
a   d <-- HEAD
 \ /
  c

How do I compute blame at "d"? The contents of the files could be
completely different. I guess the merge will sort of tell me
what happened? Not really. I guess the diff will tell me something.

The diff for the merge commit will show nothing if there were no
merge conflicts. Otherwise it will show a multi-way diff.
So I want to take the blame data from both incoming revs.
I also need some kind of "base" rev to work off of.
So I need to find the common ancestor of these commits and get
the blame data for that. Then I can do a 3-way merge.
In the case of conflicts, I'll arbitrarily go with one side
or the other. Then I need to apply the merge diff, ignoring
the side that I ignored before.

When I build the database, can I include more info to make
this easier?


Idea: What if I make a new git repo that looks just like the
original except that the line data is replaced by revs from
the original repository? Then I would just need to keep a mapping
between original revs and the transformed revs. Git would do
whatever compression it normally does, which is typically
quite good. I could even make it handle renames and deletion
in the same way, perhaps?

Can I do the transformation based on the data itself, or do I
need to use diffs? And if I need to use diffs, how would I
transform merge commits?

Perhaps I could use git write-tree and git commit-tree and git reset
to create the commits in the new repo. That would make it easier to do
merge commits without invoking a merge tool.

Still, how do I generate the merged tree? I would find the parent
files in the transformed tree, as well as the LCA file. I'd really
like to ask git to do a merge and provide a 3-way diff to make it
happen. I wonder if that is possible.

I will have to read out diffs from the tree and do merges myself,
using them. The merge commit includes the LCA blob as well as the
branch blobs. I can look these up in the transformed tree and
apply the same changes to them. It shouldn't be too difficult.

Another idea:
Most merges do not have conflicts. In that case, I can just
do git merge-file --ours on the incoming blame files and I'm
done. If there *are* conflicts, perhaps I could fall back
to calling git blame? I estimate about .5% of commits would hit
this (~700).

Is there a way that I can use git blame --incremental to
get the data I need? It works pretty quickly if you just
want the top-most commits, which is all I think I want.
However, I would need to cut it off once I had reached
the point where I lose interest.

Say I want to compute blame for a given rev and I already
have blame for the parents. I run git blame --incremental
and stop it when it outputs a commit that happened before
one of the parents (inclusive). Generally, the only commit
this could be is the given one, I think.

But how do I use this? I don't know how many lines were
overwritten by this commit.


IDEA:
If I want to see the effect of a given changeset, I can do
  git blame --incremental rev^..rev -- filename
It will show me the lines changed in that rev and blame everything
else on rev^. It runs very quickly, even for old changesets.
But how do I handle merges with this technique?

If I have a changeset R with parents P1, ..., Pn, then I need to run
  git blame --incremental ^P1 ^P2 ... ^Pn R -- filename
Then the lines will be blamed to either R or else to P1, ..., Pn.
I can copy the blame information from P1, ..., Pn based on this.

Basic steps:
Figure out which files were modified by the commit.
For each file F:
  For each parent, get the blame for F by fetching it from the blame repo (or from a cache).
  Call git blame --incremental on the file
  Update the blame in the blame repo based on it
